---
id: mdi2dvq2
title: AppBar
file_version: 1.1.3
app_version: 1.12.1
---

The AppBar component in Material UI is actually just a Paper component with some special CSS properties. We have a [tutorial here](https://react.school/material-ui/paper) on Paper if you aren't familiar.

The main CSS properties added here to make this bar stick to the top of the screen are the `position: fixed`, `top: 0`, with the `width: 100%` to set this to stretch across the screen. Of course, a `zIndex` puts the content above other content on the page.

<br/>

[<--VIDEO-->](https://youtu.be/V1DmoNY8MKM)

<br/>

## **AppBar Position prop**

By default, the AppBar's position is `fixed`, and the appropriate CSS positioning is set by the component (top, left, right). You can change the position property of the AppBar by using the position prop. The available options are the same as the CSS position values- position absolute, fixed, relative, static and sticky.

## **AppBar Color prop / Custom AppBar color**

There are two ways to set the color of the AppBar component. You can use the color prop, with options: default, inherit, primary, secondary, transparent. These will refer to the colors set in Material UI's theme. If you want to set a custom color, see the examples here where we use a custom CSS class to set the backgroundColor.

## **Material UI AppBar Examples**

Click the numbers on the Appbar to cycle through the examples.

<br/>

## **Custom AppBar Height**

To change the AppBar's height, you can create a custom CSS class and override the `minHeight` property. See the above example.

## **Material UI's Toolbar component**

The AppBar doesn't actually set any of the properties of the children to make them horizontally aligned in the way they are. That is the responsibility of the Toolbar component. The Toolbar component simply applies normal flex CSS (`display: 'flex'`), along with vertical centering via `alignItems: 'center'`, some padding, and the `minHeight: 56px` provided by `theme.mixins.toolbar`.

Because the Toolbar has a `minHeight` of 56px, it can also be used as your first component in your main content section, to act as a spacer. As you can see in our example, "this content doesn't appear below the AppBar", the paragraph starts about 64px from the top of the screen. The additional 8px padding is at the top of the document by default, set by the browser's `<body>` tag, which is overridden by the App Bar setting `top: 0px`. This seems to be why using the Toolbar component as the first component works, because it is offset by 8px, so the start of your content appears just below the AppBar.

In our above example, we use `flexGrow: 1` in our custom CSS class for the title, so that it stretches across available empty space. Because Toolbar is a flexbox, we can use any of the flex properties on the children as normal. See our [Material UI grid](https://react.school/material-ui/grid) tutorial for more discussion on Flexbox.

## **Custom React NavBar CSS**

Don't want to use Material UI's AppBar? Here is a simple implementation of their AppBar using pure React and CSS.

<br/>

This file was generated by Swimm. [Click here to view it in the app](https://swimm-web-app.web.app/repos/Z2l0aHViJTNBJTNBbWF0ZXJpYWwtdWklM0ElM0F1c2VydGVzdGluZy1zd2ltbQ==/docs/mdi2dvq2).
