---
id: ocd1090q
title: Avatar
file_version: 1.1.3
app_version: 1.12.1
---

In the following examples you will see how to use Material-UI's Avatar component, along with its close friend AvatarGroup.

These examples are a bit different than [the official documentation](https://material-ui.com/components/avatars/) because we are implementing the styling overrides with [styled-components](https://react.school/styled-components) rather than the [standard Material-UI styling approaches](https://react.school/material-ui/styling).

Why styled-components? Well, Material-UI happens to be [converting everything to a styled-components approach](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/20012). This means that soon, `withStyles` and `makeStyles` will be a thing of the past (as mentioned on [this issue](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/24405)).

Now, onto Avatar examples.

## **Avatar Image**

The standard Material-UI Avatar component takes a `src` prop which plugs into the Avatar's image `src` prop. If an image fails to load, it falls back to the children of the component. The `alt` prop plugs into the image `alt` prop.

## **Avatar Letter**

To render a letter inside the Avatar component, simply add the letters as children of the component. You can also pass anything else as children, for example icons, numbers, etc. The children will only be used if an image is not loaded with the `src` attribute.

## **Avatar With Text**

To render an Avatar alongside text, simply create a Flexbox component with `align-items: center`, and add some `margin-right` onto the Avatar. Inside of your Flexbox, add a `Typography` component alongside the `Avatar` to create a label. See the above example for how we accomplish this.

## **Avatar Color**

To change the color of the Avatar component, you will need to override the styles of the component and set the `background-color`. See above examples for how we accomplish this with styled-components.

## **Avatar Sizes**

To set the size of the Avatar component, you will need to override the root styles of the component and set the standard CSS `width` and `height` to whatever you'd like the size of the Avatar to be. In our above example, we create a dynamic component to accept a `size` prop and then use the Material-UI's spacing function to generate the pixel values. This is optional, you can just use standard pixel values here if you'd like.

## **Avatar Border**

To style the Avatar's border, simply set the standard CSS `border` attribute on the root Avatar element. In the above example, we do this by wrapping the Avatar with a styled-component.

## **Avatar Fallback**

If an image cannot be loaded, the Avatar will fall back to the children contents. If no children are provided, it will fallback to the first letter of the alt attribute.

## **Avatar Group**

The AvatarGroup component can be used to wrap multiple Avatars and provide a condensed view of a `max` number of Avatars. Using the `max` prop, you can specify how many Avatars you want to show. See the above example for more information.

## **Avatar Button**

You can wrap an Avatar component in an `IconButton` to get Button functionality. See the above example.

<br/>

This file was generated by Swimm. [Click here to view it in the app](https://swimm-web-app.web.app/repos/Z2l0aHViJTNBJTNBbWF0ZXJpYWwtdWklM0ElM0F1c2VydGVzdGluZy1zd2ltbQ==/docs/ocd1090q).
