---
id: xu1r04ng
title: Checkbox
file_version: 1.1.3
app_version: 1.12.1
---

The Material UI Checkbox works by using the browser's native `input` HTML element, inside of a Material UI `IconButton` to create the ripple and button effects. The native checkbox `input` is hidden and instead a checkbox SVG icon (or a custom icon of your choice) is used. This is a fairly simple component.

## **How to set a Material UI Checkbox**

Using the Material UI Checkbox is essentially the same as native React [inputs](https://react.school/ui/input). You have a `checked` prop, a boolean set to either `true` or `false`, which determines whether the Checkbox is checked or not. You use the `onChange` prop and React hooks to set and maintain the state of the checkbox. In the event handler, we can look at `event.target.checked` to know what the new state value should be set to. For handling multiple checkboxes, we can look at the `target.name` to identify which checkbox we touched and then store that as a key in our React state. Check out the below examples to see this in action.

## **Checkbox Bare Minimum Example**

```
import React from "react";
import Checkbox from "@material-ui/core/Checkbox";
import FormControlLabel from "@material-ui/core/FormControlLabel";
function App() {
  const [checked, setChecked] = React.useState(true);
  const handleChange = (event) => {
    setChecked(event.target.checked);
  };
  return (
    <FormControlLabel
      control={<Checkbox checked={checked} onChange={handleChange} />}
      label="Check me"
    />
  );
}
```

## **Material UI Checkbox color**

To change the color of a Material UI Checkbox, you can use the `color` prop if you want to set to one of the standard color props in Material UI: default, primary or secondary. However, if you want to use your own custom color, you will need to make use of the `withStyles` hook to target the CSS rules. See the example below to understand how to do this.

## **Checkbox disabled / disableRipple**

To disable the Checkbox, use the `disabled` prop. This will gray the component out and set the `disabled` prop on the HTML input, which will prevent users from being able to toggle it. The disableRipple prop removes the ripple effect on clicking of the checkbox.

## **Small Checkbox with size prop**

By default, the Checkbox has a `size` prop which is set to medium. You can set to one other option, `size="small"` to make the checkbox smaller.

## **Setting a Checkbox label**

To set a checkbox label, you will need to make use of the `FormControlLabel` component. Import this component and insert your Checkbox component inside the `control` prop, and write your checkbox label inside the `label` prop.

## **Making a Checkbox required in a form**

To make a checkbox required inside of a form with a normal HTML input, we would simply set the [required](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/required) attribute. This Material UI Checkbox is the same. We set the `required` attribute on the Checkbox. We also should make sure this component is inside of a `FormControl` component. This ensures that we are passing the form context down to the Material UI input.

<br/>

This file was generated by Swimm. [Click here to view it in the app](https://swimm-web-app.web.app/repos/Z2l0aHViJTNBJTNBbWF0ZXJpYWwtdWklM0ElM0F1c2VydGVzdGluZy1zd2ltbQ==/docs/xu1r04ng).
